DOC-8059 changed n1ql subqueries to support 7.0 version (#1905)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/n1ql/pages/n1ql-language-reference/subqueries.adoc

The following example <<Q4,Q4>> is a correlated subquery that uses the variable `t1` from the outer query:

> Example Q4: Find the landmark that are named with corresponding city name.

Reviewer: Line 154 above:

```
For example, in the above query <<Q1,Q1>>, the keyspace identifier `pass:c[`travel-sample`]` in the outer query is not considered a variable for the subquery.
```

Please change this to say
```
For example, in the above query <<Q1,Q1>>, the keyspace identifier `pass:c[`travel-sample`.inventory.landmark]` in the outer query is not considered a variable for the subquery.
```

> Example Q4: Find the landmark that are named with corresponding city name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example Q4: Find the landmarks that are named with corresponding city name.
```

[source#Q4,json]
----
SELECT t1.city, t1.name
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.landmark t1
WHERE t1.city IN SPLIT((SELECT RAW t2.name
                        FROM t1 AS t2)[0]);
----
.Results:
[source,json]
----

> [

Reviewer: Change these results to be the same as the results of Query Q4A below — to emphasize that the queries are equivalent

> The reference to `t2` in the subquery is actually referring to the same document from `pass:c[`travel-sample`]` that is being processed as `t1` in the outer query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reference to `t2` in the subquery is actually referring to the same document from `pass:c[`travel-sample`.inventory.landmark]` that is being processed as `t1` in the outer query.
```

In other words, the same query can be simply rewritten (without using subqueries) as follows:

Query Q4A:
[source#4A,json]
----
SELECT t1.city, t1.name
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.landmark t1
WHERE t1.city IN SPLIT(t1.name);
----

.Results:
[source,json]
----
[
  {
    "city": "Aberdour",
    "name": "Aberdour Castle"
  },
  {
    "city": "Aberdour",
    "name": "Aberdour Railway Station"
  },
  {
    "city": "Aberdulais",
    "name": "Aberdulais Falls and Tin Works"
  }...
]
----
Typically, subqueries may refer to any variables and aliases available in the scope to build correlated subqueries and to perform subqueries specific to some context of outer query.
See xref:n1ql-language-reference/correlated-subqueries.adoc[Correlated Subqueries] for more details and xref:n1ql-language-reference/subquery-examples.adoc[Examples].

> 

Reviewer: Please update all the Q5 examples to use `` `travel-sample`.inventory.airport ``:

Example Q5A
```
SELECT count(*) FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport t
WHERE (SELECT RAW t.geo.alt FROM t t1)[0] > 6000 ;
```
Example Q5B
```
SELECT count(*) FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport t
WHERE (SELECT RAW alt FROM t.geo.alt)[0] > 6000;
```

Example Q5C
```
SELECT count(*) FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport t
LET x = t.geo
WHERE (SELECT RAW y.alt FROM x y)[0] > 6000;
```

Example Q5D
```
SELECT count(*) FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport t
WHERE (SELECT RAW geo.alt FROM t.geo)[0] > 6000;
```

Please also move the example titles outside of the code blocks and update line 238 so that it reads:

```
In the following equivalent queries, explicit alias `t` of `pass:c[`travel-sample`.inventory.airport]` or LET variable `x` is treated as an expression and hence a nested path like `t.geo.lat` is allowed in the subquery FROM clause.
```

So the `pass:c[`travel-sample`]` used in subquery FROM clause is considered keyspace identifier, but not an expression.

> That makes the subquery non-correlated by the FROM clause, and the subquery returns all documents from keyspace `pass:c[`travel-sample`]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So the `pass:c[`travel-sample`.inventory.airport]` used in the subquery FROM clause is considered a keyspace identifier, but not an expression.
That makes the subquery non-correlated by the FROM clause, and the subquery returns all documents from keyspace `pass:c[`travel-sample`.inventory.airport]`.
```

Please also change line 278 above to read

```
For example, the following example <<Q6,Q6>> has no explicit alias for `pass:c[`travel-sample`.inventory.airport]`.
```

+

Example Q6:
[source#Q6,json]
----
SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.geo.alt
                     FROM `travel-sample` t1))

> FROM `travel-sample` LIMIT 4;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.geo.alt
                     FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport t1))
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport LIMIT 4;
```

----
.Results:
[source,json]
----
[
  {

>     "$1": 31596

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "$1": 1968
```

Contrast Q6 with Q6A below, the subquery is correlated by using the keyspace alias in the FROM clause.
The result is only `1` because the subquery is applicable to only the current document `t` being processed in the parent query.
+

Example Q6A:
[source#Q6A,json]
----
SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.geo.alt FROM t t1))

> FROM `travel-sample` t;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.geo.alt FROM t t1))
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport t;
```

Further, the subquery is required to alias its `from-term` to avoid conflict with the same identifier in both outer and inner queries.
For example, the following example Q6B shows an error:
+

Example Q6B:
[source#Q6B,json]
----

> SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.geo.alt
>                      FROM `travel-sample`))
> FROM `travel-sample`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.geo.alt
                     FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport))
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport;
```

----

.Results:
[source,json]
----
[
  {

>     "code": 4020,

Reviewer: Update the results as follows:

```
[
  {
    "code": 4020,
    "msg": "Duplicate subquery alias airport",
    "query": "SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.geo.alt\n                     FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport))\nFROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport;"
  }
]
```

However, the nested paths are expressions.

> In the following example Q6C, the `from-term` has nested path `pass:c[`travel-sample`.geo]` as expression where `pass:c[`travel-sample`]` is referring to the implicit alias of the keyspace in the parent query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example Q6C, the FROM term has the nested path `airport.geo` as an expression, where `airport` refers to the implicit alias of the keyspace in the parent query.
```

Hence this is a correlated subquery, and the result is `1` corresponds to the current document in the parent query.

> //ambigious reference error

Reviewer: You can delete this line 😄

Author: yes 💯

+
[source#Q6C,json]
----
Example Q6C:

> SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.alt
>                      FROM `travel-sample`.geo t1))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.alt
                     FROM airport.geo t1))
```

The last element (`airport`) in the nested keyspace identifier is the implicit alias.

> FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport;
```
Add a semicolon for consistency.

So the whole query should read
```
SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.alt
                     FROM airport.geo t1))
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport
```

----

.Results:
[source,json]
----
  [
    {
      "$1": 1
    },
  ...
  ]
----

If the expression does not resolve to any of the variables in scope for the subquery, then that is treated as keyspace identifier and subsequently if the keyspace is not found, an error is raised.

> For example, in the following query `pass:c[`beer-sample`]` is not defined in the scope and is treated as a new keyspace identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the following query `pass:c[`travel-sample`.inventory.hotel]` is not defined in the scope and is treated as a new keyspace identifier.
```

However, the nested paths are expressions.
In the following example Q6C, the `from-term` has nested path `pass:c[`travel-sample`.geo]` as expression where `pass:c[`travel-sample`]` is referring to the implicit alias of the keyspace in the parent query.
Hence this is a correlated subquery, and the result is `1` corresponds to the current document in the parent query.

> //ambigious reference error

Author: @simon-dew requesting you here to have a look at this query, source#Q6C. 
```
SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.alt
                     FROM `travel-sample`.geo t1))
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport
```
![Screenshot (29)](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48326355/117546046-11564d80-b046-11eb-9e69-522cd005818d.png)

Reviewer: It should be this:
```
SELECT array_length((SELECT RAW t1.alt
                     FROM airport.geo t1))
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport
```

The implicit alias is always the last element in the keyspace path. The keyspace path in the outer query is `` `travel-sample`.inventory.airport ``, so the implicit alias in the inner query is `airport`.

*Example 5*::

> The following two queries show valid and invalid examples with `travel-sample` data set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following two queries show valid and invalid examples with the `airport` collection.
```

Note the nested paths used in the FROM clause of the subquery.
+

Example Q8: Find airports that are at altitudes more than 4000ft
[source#Q8,json]
----

> SELECT t1.city, t1.geo.alt
> FROM `travel-sample` t1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT t1.city, t1.geo.alt
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport t1
```

> WHERE (SELECT RAW t2.alt
>       FROM `travel-sample`.geo t2)[0] > 4000;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WHERE (SELECT RAW t2.alt
      FROM airport.geo t2)[0] > 4000;
```

----
.Results:
[source,json]
----
[
  {

>     "code": 3000,

Reviewer: Update the results to read:
```
[
  {
    "code": 3000,
    "msg": "Ambiguous reference to field airport.",
    "query": "SELECT t1.city, t1.geo.alt\nFROM `travel-sample`.inventory.airport t1\nWHERE (SELECT RAW t2.alt\n      FROM airport.geo t2)[0] > 4000;"
  }
]
```

> The following example demonstrates the power of using nested path expressions in xref:n1ql-language-reference/correlated-subqueries.adoc[correlated subqueries] over the array subdocument `pass:c[`travel-sample`.reviews]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates the power of using nested path expressions in xref:n1ql-language-reference/correlated-subqueries.adoc[correlated subqueries] over the array subdocument `hotel.reviews`.
```

+
Query Q9:
[source#Q9,json]
----

SELECT name, cnt_reviewers
FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.hotel AS t
LET cnt_reviewers = (SELECT raw count(*)
                     FROM t.reviews AS s
                     WHERE s.ratings.Overall >= 4)[0]
WHERE cnt_reviewers >= 6
ORDER BY cnt_reviewers DESC
LIMIT 10;
----

.Results:
[source,json]
----
[
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 9,
    "name": "Holiday Inn London Kensington Forum"
  },
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 9,
    "name": "Campanile"
  },
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 9,
    "name": "Drop in Chalets"
  },
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 9,
    "name": "Cadogan Hotel"
  },
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 9,
    "name": "Negresco"
  },
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 9,
    "name": "Suites at Fisherman's Wharf"
  },
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 9,
    "name": "Wyndham Parc 55 Hotel"
  },
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 8,
    "name": "Lochmaddy Hotel"
  },
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 8,
    "name": "Kensington West"
  },
  {
    "cnt_reviewers": 8,
    "name": "Ibis Hotel Stratford"
  }
]
----
+

Query Q9A:
[source#Q9A,json]
----
SELECT name, cnt_reviewers
FROM  `travel-sample`.inventory.hotel AS t

> LET cnt_reviewers = (SELECT raw count(*)
>                      FROM `travel-sample` tmp
>                      USE KEYS meta(t).id
>                      UNNEST tmp.reviews s
>                      WHERE s.ratings.Overall >= 4)[0]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LET cnt_reviewers = (SELECT raw count(*)
                     FROM `travel-sample`.inventory.hotel tmp
                     USE KEYS meta(t).id
                     UNNEST tmp.reviews s
                     WHERE s.ratings.Overall >= 4)[0]
```

WHERE cnt_reviewers >= 6
ORDER BY cnt_reviewers DESC
LIMIT 10;
----

+

> The above example Q9A is Couchbase Server 4.x equivalent of example <<Q6,Q6>> that does not use nested paths in subquery FROM clause.
> In Couchbase Server version 4.x the FROM clause of the subquery can only have either keyspace identifier name or a subquery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example Q9A is an equivalent of example <<Q6,Q6>> that does not use nested paths in the subquery FROM clause.
```

Remove references to old versions of the software.
